---
title: Publications
last_updated: July 29, 2016
summary: "Shows information about the publications at the publisher."
sidebar: c_replication_sidebar
permalink: replication_grid_publications.html
id: Publications.grdPublications
folder: ConnectReplication
---

## Status

Maximum status of the agents associated with the publication. For example, Started, Succeeded, In progress, Idle, Retrying, Failed.

## Publisher

Name of the publisher instance.

## Publication

Publication name.

## Publication Type

Type of publication. For example, Transaction, Snapshot, or Merge.

## Subscriptions

Number of subscriptions for each publication.

## Log Reader Agent

Name of the Log Reader agent, if applicable. Click the link to see detailed information about the agent.

## Queue Reader Agent

Name of Queue Reader agent, if applicable. Click the link to see detailed information about the agent.

## Snapshot Agent

Name of the Snapshot Agent job for the publication. Click the link to see detailed information about the agent.

## Synchronizing

Number of subscriptions currently being synchronized with the publication.

## Last Synchronized

Date and time the publication was last synchronized.

## Retention

Retention period of the publication, in hours.

## Due to Expire

Date and time the publication is due to expire.

## Errors

Number of errors that have occurred when synchronizing with the publication.

## Warnings

Number of publication monitor threshold warnings that have been generated by this publication.



{% include links.html %}
